---
title: 'AI Will Write Really Good Propaganda'
date: 2023-04-24T15:29:00.000-05:00
draft: false
categories: ['life']
tags: ['philosophy', 'ai']
---

ChatGPT 3 / 4 has a lot of people writing about either AI takeover or all of us losing our jobs. Maybe. I think something else is more likely, something that led the Luddites to smash textile mills in the early 1800's: AI will be another weapon for the capital class to use to exploit everyone else.


Common thought is that Luddites were afraid of new technology, and lashed out like some kind of remote tribespeople at unfamiliar and scary technology. Not the case. As [Cory Doctorow writes](https://locusmag.com/2022/01/cory-doctorow-science-fiction-is-a-luddite-literature/):

> ...the Luddites’ cause wasn’t the destruction of technology – no more than the Boston Tea Party’s cause was the elimination of tea, or Al Qaeda’s cause was the end of civilian aviation. Smashing looms and stocking frames was the Luddites’ tactic, not their goal. ...their goal was something closely related to science fiction: to challenge not the technology itself, but rather the social relations that governed its use.

Luddites were textile workers. Before the introduction of mills, this was a highly skilled, labor-intensive trade, that paid well (and caused clothes to be very expensive). With the introduction of the textile mill, suddenly cloth could be produced at far greater volumes for far cheaper. Again one might think Luddites lashed out to prevent this and preserve their livelihoods, but no. Mills provided the opportunity for their class to work much fewer hours at much less difficult work. They saw no reason why this would also mean they should get paid less. After all, the industry was exploding, and though cloth went for cheaper, volume was so much higher that profits were skyrocketing. So, shouldn't the people that make the clothes, make more money?

Not under capitalism. The *factory owners* certainly turned a greater profit, and in response to the improved technology, they cut their labor force, forcing the remaining workers to work as long and hard as before, if not longer, for the same or lower wages.

So, they responded quite reasonably: they burned the factories down. Unfathomably based.

So it's 2023 and we have found a new kind of cloth mill: language models such as ChatGPT, commonly referred to in general as "AI."

The possibilities of AI are phenomenal, though for now I remain skeptical of implementability of anything radical enough to upturn a labor market. It's coming, though, at most within the next fifty years, likely much sooner. When it happens, when a manager plops down a PC containing a GTX 5080 in the middle of the marketing department and says "behold your replacement," will the marketing department burn the building down?

Well, outside of maybe France, no, for the reasons things don't really change lately: hyper militarized police forces, a from-birth subjugated population, etc etc. But also because of the thing I want to write about today: AI will write really good propaganda. So good, people will *welcome* the negative impacts in their lives due to the capital class retaining ownership of the benefits of the new technology while leveraging it to extract even more labor value for less cost out of the remaining working humans.

The impact of capitalist propaganda, especially in the USA, has been tremendous. You can't even talk about things most developed nations have on earth such as universal healthcare without being called an enemy of capitalism, and being an enemy of capitalism is as obviously bad as being a cartoon villain. The dichotomy of "capitalism good" and "everything else bad" is rigid, set in stone, and the result of among other things a pervasive propagandic effort on literally every channel available. It's also *adaptable*. Capitalist propaganda lacks the heavy-handed cringe characteristic of culture war propaganda. There's no need to draw up a virtue-signalling commercial or ink an abysmal political cartoon. As soon as a new technology for transmitting information is invented, capitalist propaganda is already there making sure it's utilized to further the needs of the capitalist class. With television came the commercial and product placement, as the capitalist class justified the exitence of the technology by selling people things. Producers daren't allow content that challenges the needs of this class, because they drew their livelihood from their advertisers. The platform's existence depended on it.

This model repeated instantly for every new form of media. From Myspace, through to Reddit, Youtube, and Tiktok, each model functions primarily as a vehicle for the promotion of capitalist means of thinking. How: the platforms have *no value* outside the content created for them, and the audience eyeballs consuming that content. Yet the vast majority of profits are kept from creators, who yet maintain responsibility for toeing the rules of the sponsors that feed money into the platform.

Right now, Americans in particular are kept distracted from their lowering wages, their abysmal healthcare system, their total lack of labor protections, by culture war. Organizations are happy to virtue signal, throwing up the LGBT flag, lending support for movements like BLM, etc, but in terms of challenging the core structural issues behind, for example, a psuedo-market-based healthcare system, no ccorporation will come close. This paper-thin virtue signalling is apparent enough that most crack jokes about corporate concerns for LGBT rights for example end at midnight at the end of Pride Month. We all know what's going on, here. But imagine a lizard-skinned executive can open a terminal and ask ChatGPT-6, "how can I convince people my company cares about LGBT rights, while spending the least amount of money possible?" Or, "how can I convince my workers to trust the organization enough to take an indefinite 20% pay cut?"

So far, AI isn't a wizard. It can't respond with a series of words that will function as a spell that, when pasted into a company-wide email, will cast a glamour on the minds of employees that turns them into mindless wageslave zombies. What I fear, though, is that it will soon be able to respond with a step by step plan that allows a corporation to push its workers just up to their breaking point of layoffs, paycuts, overtime, and amount-of-coworkers-maimed-at-work, with helpful margins of error and certainty. It could give a playbook: if they start to unionize, do this, if there's a culture war, you can leverage it to turn them against eachother like this, if there's an oil price spike or inflation or a housing crisis, you can blame cuts on that, etc etc.

Activists among you will say, "ok, great, we will ask ChatGPT the best way to unionize in this environment." No, no! I remind you of the Luddites: the reason they had to resort to burning factories, is because someone else *already owned the factories*. The system *already* has given all the keys (and monopoly on violence) to the capital class. For the same reason, the capital class *will have the better AI*.

Running an AI model is expensive. High capital investment cost in equipment, then high running costs (power, cooling). Renting someone else's AI is thus also expensive. In this system, this technology is thus already captured by the capital class. OpenAI was originally intended to share the goods of this technology "with the people," but, what a surprise, in the end they had to close source their models and begin rent-seeking behavior for access to their models. Because they have investors. Because they exist in this system.

The capitalist class is about to be armed with an extraordinary weapon. For every pro-union TikTok video, ten perfectly tuned anti-union videos can be scripted and shot at far less effort. For every tweet asking why BP isn't being punished for dumping millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, five hundred can be penned talking about how cool BP is for putting a gay pride flag on one of their oil platforms for a month.

Attempts to fight back using a login to ChatGPT will be met with frustration: for some reason, as soon as you start getting a little too anti-capitalist, its answers diminish in quality. The response time increases. Or it simply says "I'm sorry, what you're discussing isn't within my safety parameters." You try to deploy your own model at home, but your home server takes a day to generate what OpenAI's investment-fed server farm can generate in a second.

And as you tell people about this, you find a lot of them responding with the same things they heard online: "why do you want your own LLM? What are you trying to hide? Why are you so anti-American?" AI powered propaganda will be far reaching and recursive: Not only will it enforce the needs of the capitalist class, it will cover its tracks, close loops, clean up behind itself.

Also, I said earlier that AI can't cast glamours, but let me really speculate for a second: Neal Stephenson has often written about the possibility of human-programming memes. In "Snowcrash," these were literally ancient sumerian spells that were used to do some weird shit like create a percussive sex cult, or blast people's brains into pulp through VR, or create zombies. In "Fall, or, Dodge in Hell," these were incoherent blasts of audio-visual content that turned the middle of the USA into a no-mans-land ran by "Yallqueda," an utterly irrational white-Christian-nationalist tribal territory patrolled by heavily armed pickup trucks blazened with crosses.

I don't think people can be literally programmed by audio-visual content, but I do think we have a great deal of cognitive biases, and I think rhetorical fallacy is very powerful, and I think nobody in history has really leveraged these aspects of us even close to their maximum potential. Demagogues like Hitler, cultists like Jim Jones or Joseph Smith, I think have merely scratched the surface of what's possible with simple Rhetoric. Imagine if you could train a model on their speeches, then feed in the negative outcomes, then start training against how these people failed. Throw in some Sumerian spells for good measure, why not, and who knows what kind of insidously effective propaganda you can get in return?
