---
title: wtf is Taiwan's Bilingual Nation Initiative, Really?
date: 2022-11-04T07:44:34.995Z
draft: false
categories:
  - info
tags:
  - taiwan
  - language-learning
  - philosophy
---
Before we get started, my goal here is to consolidate the answers I've gotten to questions I've been asking, and the research I've been doing, and touch that a bit with my own musings I've been doing over the last year and change. I hope that people that read this consider that it's been written by a very comfortable straight white dude with moderate Mandarin skills and native English skills living in Taiwan on a cushy unrestricted visa. After reading this article, it would be a very good idea to not draw too many strong conclusions from it, but instead maybe use it to formulate your own questions you go out and ask other people, Taiwanese or otherwise, and hopefully not also straight, white, American, and male.

I wanted to make that clear cause I'm going to make some sweeping generalizations here and I really don't have enough perspective for people to just take these generalizations without a grain of salt. 

So to start: In late 2018, Taiwan's Executive Yuan approved a blueprint by the National Development Council (Gold Card visa holders know this council well) with the goal of "developing Taiwan into a bilingual nation by 2030."

It's a common topic, usually to make fun of: Hah, make Taiwan bilingual, by 2030? How's it going to teach EVERYONE English in just 11 years? 

Stop there, this is why I have my big disclaimer at the top: most people make a lot of assumptions about this topic, and to have a good conversation here, we need to address those assumptions.

Most people hear about the Bilingual Nation initiative kinda vaguely, like there's some Act or Law or Decree, and it's called Bilingual Nation, and I guess the goal is to make everyone Bilingual? Sounds hard. It's probably a good idea to talk more about the actual legal instrument of "The Blueprint" and what that means the government is /  will be / is allowed to do, and we will get to that, but first, the assumptions:

Why do people assume the intention is to make everyone able to speak English? On top of that, why do people assume the other half of the binary is Chinese?

Alessandar Ferrer of Kyushu University in Japan and Tzu-Bin Lin of National Taiwan Normal University in Taiwan wrote an excellent article exploring these demographic, lingustic, identity type issues in a paper on the subject titled ["Official bilingualism in a multilingual nation: a study of the 2030 bilingual nation policy in Taiwan"](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01434632.2021.1909054?journalCode=rmmm20) that I highly recommend. Full text PDFs can be found by googling the title. 

The other must-read is the ["Blueprint for Developing Taiwan into a Bilingual Nation by 2030"](https://www.ndc.gov.tw/Content_List.aspx?n=FB2F95FF15B21D4A) by the National Development Council. 

Taiwan has seven "national languages," affirmed by a combination of the Indigenous Languages Development Act as well as the National Language Development Law, those languages being [Mandarin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwanese_Mandarin), [Hokkien](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwanese_Hokkien), [Hakka](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwanese_Hakka), [Formosan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formosan_languages), [Matsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matsu_dialect), [Wuqiu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Putian_dialect), and [Taiwan Sign Language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_Sign_Language). What does that mean? I don't know, actually, other than that there's been some efforts to offer classes in these languages in schools. I haven't found anything about requirements for government documents to be in these languages, to allow for licenses to be in these languages, anything along these lines. That's just for lack of research and my Mandarin not being so hot so it's harder for me to search for this kind of stuff in Mandarin though.

Which does bring the obvious point up that the "Official Language" of Taiwan, according to this [executive yuan website](https://web.archive.org/web/20131014222446/http://www.ey.gov.tw/en/cp.aspx?n=F4FA171B7E10F12F), is Mandarin. Wait, it says "Mandarin is the official language," so what's this "Chinese" that everyone assumes is the other binary in the "Bilingual Nation?" Not just assumes, by the way, several Bilingual Nation related documents all refer to "Chinese." Depending on your involvement in this whole sphere-of-Taiwan-China-adjacent-stuff, you might have a very clear idea here. "Chinese? That's the language they speak in China, right? Oh wait, and Taiwan too... maybe? But the characters look different? Oh and Hong Kong! No that's different, that's Cantonese, right?" So begins the slippery slope. We should define terms, and I get to do a fun thing where I finally get to preach about why I only ever call Chinese, "Mandarin," and the nation of "China," "the PRC." 

The executive yuan website linked earlier is accurate to refer to the "official language" (whatever that means) of Taiwan, "Mandarin." "Mandarin" goes by many names, but here we're talking about *Taiwanese* Mandarin, also known as "Guoyu" 國語, which translates to "National Language," or "Huayu," 華語, the "yu" meaning generally "language" and the "hua" meaning a *very* problematic concept that's at the heart of this sidebar rant. That same "hua" can be seen here:  華人 with "person" to mean "Chinese People." The "huayu" way of calling Taiwanese Mandarin kinda literally translates to just, "Mandarin," the word English speakers have been vaguely using to refer to China-stuff that happened to not go canceleably out of fashion in the way that "oriental" did. 中華 means "China," using the first character from the more common way to refer to the PRC, 中華. So wtf does "hua" mean on it's own? I don't know, apparently "magnificient," but I've heard it used as a vaguely general term for "Asian people," I think, in hilarious sentences like "Huaren don't age as quickly as white people." My general point is, it's messy, and we've now arrived at the inevitable part of any article by a white guy writing about Taiwan, where we talk about "is Taiwan a part of China." 

Spoilers: no, obviously, the PRC and its ruling government, the CPC, have absolutely no authority whatsoever over any territory of Taiwan or its ruling government, the ROC. The question gets a little more complicated when we let people muddy up what "China" means, though, and this is why I'm always so careful. 

In 2008 a [TVBS poll](https://www.tvbs.com.tw/FILE_DB/DL_DB/even/200806/even-20080610175239.pdf) had 68% of respondents say they identified as Taiwanese, and only 18% as "Chinese." Fascinatingly, the "Chinese" used was 中國人, the word most usually meaning people literally from the PRC. I have no way of knowing if that's how it was *asked* or if that's just how the results are displayed.  

More recently in 2015, a "Taiwan Braintrust" [poll](https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/2015/02/05/2003610873) showed that 89.5% of Taiwanese identified as "Taiwanese," with only 6% identifying as "Chinese." Unfortunately this time I can't find the original poll and don't know what word for "Chinese" was used. 

Though I wonder how many would identify as 華人? And that's the slippery angle, that's where the room for propaganda and normalization. The CPC can be clever when it says "Taiwanese people are Chinese," if it says it in the right way, if it changes what "Chinese" means, because "Chinese" can mean so many different things. That's the reason for this massive sidebar, because of how, in English, people are getting away with overloading the term "Chinese." For example, something like 90% of Taiwanese people are of "Han" ancestry, which could easily be hot-swapped for "Chinese" in certain contexts, which lets the CPC be correct when it says "most Taiwanese are Chinese," when clearly that isn't true, most Taiwanese are Taiwanese, as they self identify. "Taiwanese people speak Chinese, just like Chinese people do. They are Chinese." No, not even PRC people speak "Chinese," they speak a Beijing dialect that we keep letting the CPC get away with calling "Standard Chinese," 普通話, also in English, "Modern Standard Han Speech." See, Han descendant people! All Taiwanese are Chinese, and they all speak Chinese! 

This is all a nasty form of Han supremacy that the CPC deliberately engages in because they're often smart political operators that know how to wield propaganda, that I believe the Taiwanese government often accidentally engages in with the same presumptive innocence of a white woman in America praising a kid wearing a Tupac shirt for "promoting diversity" or "being multicultural." 

We are finally back to talking specifically about the Bilingual Nation initiative, because that's what the initiative, and most of its supporting documentation does: make an awful lot of assumptions about what is "normal," what is "multicultural," and what is "really cool rich guy capitalism." 

For example, as noted by Ferrer and Tzu-Bin in the paper I linked up top, when the Ministry of Education discusses the initiative in ["Plan to Promote (a)"](https://www.edu.tw/News_Content.aspx?n=D33B55D537402BAA&s=FB233D7EC45FFB37)  and ["Plan to Promote (b),"](<https://depart.moe.edu.tw/ED2100/News_Content.aspx?n=D23E9B1FC9ED5D63&sms=418 6928212B88A3A&s=E4D1735A88BB7258>) it implies a pretty clear trifecta: Mandarin is "normal," native languages are "multicultural," and English is... something else. Money. English is Money. 

That's been the implied goal through all the Bilingual Nation documentation, because recall: "why English?" Because, the government argues, English is how you do globalism. English is how you unlock the riches of international capitalism. English is a language for Doing Business. 

I mean, they aren't strictly *wrong*, though I would love to see some kind of chart of "total price of deals signed on documents written in X language," and see how English compares to Arabic (oil deals?) or PRC Mandarin (basically all world commerce at this point?). Or hell, Taiwanese Mandarin, for how many chip deals were settled in that language. 

My point is that the government's other efforts, to integrate indigenous cultures and spread languages other than Mandarin, are, despite their explicit promises not to (see top of the Blueprint where they write that the policy won't "constrain native language education"), genuinely continuing Han supremacist erasure of local cultures, a work that was taken up earnestly and explicitly by the KMT when they arrived after losing the communist revolution and instituted Mandarin Only policies in Taiwan. 

A lot of the Bilingual Nation aligned documentation talks about making things easier for "foreigners" in Taiwan that don't speak Mandarin, but bear in mind English is not a multicultural language to the people writing these documents, it's the language of money, so making foreigners comfortable (and attracting foreigners to Taiwan with better English signage or whatever) is not to increase the multi cultural nature of Taiwan, it's just a plain and simple capitalist objective to, I dunno, do some economic stimulation. Increase global trade. That kind of thing. 

There is the "soft power" angle of course. America destroyed communism by getting Russian to love blue jeans, maybe Taiwan can end PRC imperialism by getting citizens of all the other nuclear superpowers to fall in love with [小資女孩向前衝](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Girls) by releasing a *really* good dub, sponsored by the NDC. Maybe! But that doesn't seem to be the focus of the various articles and documents. 

## Wow very cool, but, wtf is the Bilingual Nation Initiative?

Other than a vaguely Han-supremacist, vaguely whitewashing-of-foreigners-while-erasing-non-white-non-English-speaking-foreigners bit of classic liberal gaff, the Bilinguagl Nation Initiative seems to be your typical, tepid, democratic nation-state bit of campaign promise-fulfilling "go do a thing" directive from party leaders, that various agencies, departments, and ministries are scrambling to accomplish. 

It has a couple specific strategies, all of which are available to read in plain [English](https://english.ey.gov.tw/News3/9E5540D592A5FECD/c9ce3800-d7bf-47f5-9d6e-a244d215ea00), and in the interest of not wasting time, I'm not gonna just copy paste them here. Suffice it to say, it's actually all fairly reasonable. For example, one strategy is to create a government database of specific English terms to use when referring to specific Mandarin language concepts the government often talks about, so that various departments all say thing the same way in English. Another strategy is to ensure important legal decisions, briefs, etc, are translated and made available in English. Another is to ensure that bilingual licenses can be issued for technical personnel (great if you trained up in Taiwan and are looking to emigrate, for example). 

Some of it is silly, for example "promote the establishment of an exclusively English-language television station," because I guess that's what's holding back the flood of soft-power-fomenting foreigners from immigrating? Lack of good English TV in the age of Netflix. 

Those are all the strategies, but what about implementation? Here's where you need to go start talking to someone other than a white guy writing a blog post or op-ed. I *did* go around and ask a whole lot of people about how the Bilingual Initiative implementation is going, and it's been mostly crickets. There's been whispers of attracting more English teachers out to rural areas, met with backlash by local teachers who fear being replaced by 22 year old Americans recently graduated from their creative writing programs and searching for meaning in life in a foreign country (that's me I'm making fun of, 9 years ago), but I've seen more active forms of rural development along those lines by NGOs like [Crossroads](https://crossroads.tw/) than I have by direct intervention from the government.

If the goal is to promote economic development and soft power through making Taiwan more globalized and attractive as an immigration location, the government, and the NDC itself, have already made massive strides there through the Gold Card program, a ridiculously unrestricted visa program that targets technical workers, with a clear path to permanent residency. It could be because I have said visa but I've experienced way more direct engagement and intervention by the government through that context than I ever have in the context of the Bilingual Nation initiative, despite - did I mention this earlier? - the English teaching experience combined with a very fun and useful degree in writing.